okay so let's continue our discussion of
continuity
which we began last time
which is
which i defined last time and i wrote
again here
which intuitively says that if you want
to be
that
if x is sufficiently
um
close to
a number c
then f of x will be very close to f of c
okay so it connects
how the function behaves near a point
to how a function behaves at the point
okay
and
last time we gave an example of a
function which is continuous everywhere
namely um
uh
the function um f of x equals ax plus b
and one that was not continuous at a
point c and we ended with um
let me just recall the question i asked
last time
if f
is a function let's say that its whole
domain is r
does there exist
a point where it's continuous
okay
okay now
i could answer this question now just
using the definition but i'll answer it
in a minute after we prove um
following theorem which
is an analog of this theorem that we
proved here for limits right we showed
[Applause]
that
if you have a subset s
of r a cluster point of s so this is
where you take limits and
then the limit as x goes to c of f of x
equals l if and only if
for every sequence converging to c we
have f of x n which is a new sequence
converges to l so this connects
limits of functions
uh to limits of
sequences limits along sequences if you
like
we're going to prove an analog of this
theorem now for the notion of continuity
um
but uh you know there's kind of a and
these two definitions
certainly look
if you look at the definition of limit
and the definition of continuity they
certainly this one certainly looks like
the definition of limit where now the
limit has to be f c the function
evaluated at that point and um
you know it essentially is but we do
have a kind of
degenerate case where c here is not
required to be a cluster point of s it's
just any point of s
and
you know we'll have two cases c is a
cluster point of s and c is not a
cluster point of s
and you'll see that when c is not a
cluster point of s will have
kind of a silly situation for talking
about continuity so this is the the
following
theorem
which has three parts so suppose
s is the subset of r
c is an element of s
f is a function from s to r
so the first part is
if c is not
a cluster point
of s
then
f is
continuous
at c so if we're looking at continuity
at a point kind of the only interesting
points to look at are cluster points of
the set s otherwise no matter what
function it is it will be continuous at
such a point
the second is that now let's suppose
we're in the more interesting case
that c is a cluster point of s suppose c
is a
cluster point of s
then
which is you know essentially the only
thing that doesn't that's missing from
this definition and the definition for
limit
then f is continuous
at c
and this is worn out in this theorem if
and only if
the limit as x goes to c of f of x
equals f of c
okay
and the third part of this theorem which
is now the analog of this theorem we
proved here for
limits
is the following
f is
continuous at c
if and only if
for every sequence
xn
of
elements of s
such that
x sub n converges to c
we have
f of x sub n converges to
f c
okay
so again if c is not a cluster point of
the set then every function is going to
be continuous at that point so this is
kind of a
so if c is not a cluster point of s this
is kind of a silly case to look at okay
all right so let's prove uh the first
theorem
i mean the first part of this theorem
so
what's the intuition
remember continuity is a connection
between f near a point
and the function at the point now if the
only points near c is c
then f of x equals f of c for x near c
because x can only be c
and therefore that will be less than
epsilon
uh
so
you know when we're at a point that's
not a cluster point it kind of removes
the near part and we're just looking at
f at c and comparing f to itself at c
so
let's suppose f is not a cluster point
so we want to prove continuity so that's
it for all epsilon delta arguments so
let epsilon
be positive
since c is not
a cluster point of s
what does this mean so remember to be a
cluster point of a set s means for all
uh
delta positive there exists
so let me
recall what it means to be a cluster
point
over here on the side
so
c is a
cluster point of s
this
means for all delta positive
the set
x minus delta x plus delta
intersect
so c
intersect s take away c
is non-empty
okay
so since c is not a cluster point that
means
there exists some delta zero so that
this interval is disjoint from s take
away c
such that
c minus delta 0 c plus delta 0
intersect s take away
c
equals the empty set
now
if i include c in this intersection
so another way of stating this is that
the only thing
since c is an element of s
the only thing that's in this
intersection
is c
okay
so this here
is
the rigorous way of saying there's
nothing in s near c except for c itself
and therefore there's nothing to compare
to f of c
okay
so we'll choose delta to be this one
because then there's nothing there's no
x in s in this interval other than c
and then f of
c minus f of c is zero so
choose delta to be delta 0.
then if
x minus
so now we want to
say that this delta works
so if x is an s
and x minus c is less than delta that
implies x equals c
because the only thing
in this interval
that's coming from s is c
and therefore f of x
minus f of c this is equal to
f of c minus f of c
equals zero which is less than epsilon
okay
so this is a really you know degenerate
case of
when you're trying to see if a
function's continuous at a certain point
all right so let's now move to the more
uh interesting part that c is a cluster
point
so suppose c is a cluster point
of s
and we want to show f is continuous at c
if and only if the limit of f as x goes
to c of f of x equals f c
going this direction is really quite
easy so we're going to go this direction
and
you should be able to prove this
direction just from you know what i
write down here so
suppose
limit as x goes to c of f of x equals f
of c i mean this whole argument is kind
of silly um because the definitions are
just so close except for the
um
you know
now c is a cluster point so that's not
missing from either definition
but the only difference is this guy you
only look at x near c
uh but not at c
um so suppose the limit as x goes to c
of f of x equals f of c now we want to
show that f x is cont that f is
continuous at c
so let epsilon be positive
since
we have this
there exists a delta positive such that
if
x is an s
and
the absolute value of x minus c is
bigger than 0
is less than delta 0
then
f of x minus f c is less than epsilon
okay and we'll just choose delta to be
this delta zero
if x minus c is less than delta 0
then there are two cases either x is
equal to c or x is not equal to z
see
so let's write it this way
if x equals c then clearly
f of x minus f of c
equals f of c
minus f of c
equals 0 is less than epsilon
and
if
x not equals c
then
that's certainly bigger than 0 but we're
still assuming it's less than delta
which remember is this delta 0
coming from the fact that the limit as x
goes to c of f of x
i kind of missed that there
tells me
that
this is less than epsilon okay
so it's it's just follows from follows
immediately isn't like from the
definitions okay
there's not much to it
okay so
now let's prove
the third part of this theorem which is
um
you know an analog of that theorem we
have over there for limits
all right
so let's prove this direction
let's suppose
f is
continuous at c and now we want to prove
this statement about sequences so let me
also
when i prove the opposite direction not
have to label it so let me put a star
this star is going to be
the right-hand side of this statement
so let
x sub n
be a sequence
in s so of elements of s
such that x n converges to c
okay
now um
drew this picture for limits and it's
the same picture now for this guy
and we're wanting to show
now that
limit as n goes to infinity of f of x
sub n
equals f of c
okay
so here's uh
it's epsilon m argument so let epsilon
be positive so now i'll go to the
picture here's f of c
here's f of c
plus epsilon
f of c minus epsilon so what do we know
we know the function is continuous at c
so that means that if i take
if i look at c then there exists a delta
so that if
i'm in
this interval here
everything in this interval gets mapped
to
inside of this interval okay
now
what else do i know or what else am i
assuming x sub n is a sequence
converging to s so for large n for n big
enough
for some capital m 0
x sub n is going to lie inside this
interval if you like in the definition
of convergence of a sequence
epsilon is equal to delta in that
definition but
don't mind that
so for all n big enough x sub n lies in
this interval
and
since this interval gets mapped inside
this interval by f this f of x
sub n will end up in this interval
within epsilon to f c as long as n is
bigger than big enough
all right and uh so this picture i just
went through this is the proof and now
we just need to write it out
so since
since f is
continuous at c there exists a delta
positive
such that
if x
minus c is less than delta
this tells me
f of x minus f of c
is less than epsilon
okay
now
since
the sequence x of n converges to c there
exists
some integer capital m0 such that
for all n bigger than or equal to m0
x sub n minus c is less than delta
and therefore for all n bigger than or
equal to m sub zero f of x n will be
uh within epsilon of f of c
so this will be the
m we choose
then
if n is bigger than or equal to m
we get that
x of n minus x minus c
is less than delta
which implies by
how delta's defined right delta if x
minus c is within distance delta f of x
minus f of c is within distance epsilon
we get f of
x of n
minus f of c
is less than epsilon
okay
so that gives us one direction
all right so now we'll prove the
opposite direction
so we're assuming
that
this
statement star holds namely for all
sequence x sub n converging to c we have
f of x sub n converging to f of c
and we want to prove that
that the limit or that f is continuous
at c
okay
and we're going to do this by
contradiction which is kind of which is
the same way we proved uh the opposite
direction for the theorem about limits
so
the proof is by
contradiction namely
suppose the conclusion we want does not
hold so suppose
f is
not
continuous at c
so let me recall we negated that
definition in the last lecture but we'll
negate it again
for for this this means that there
exists
a bad epsilon
so that
for all delta positive
uh there exists an x and s satisfying x
minus c is less than delta
and
f of x minus f of c
is bigger than or equal to epsilon 0.
okay
all right so
we apply
so since we're assuming f is not
continuous there exists epsilon zero so
we have all this
so
which holds for every delta
and now we'll choose delta to be one
one-half one-third and so on
then there exists x of 1
and s
such that x sub 1 minus c is less than 1
and
f of x sub 1 minus f of c
is bigger than or equal to epsilon zero
that's just delta if you like delta
equals one
and now we continue
exists x of 2 and s
such that
x sub 2 minus c is less than a half
and
so here this is delta equals a half
so this is delta equals a half and so on
okay so then we conclude
um
so
you know if you like omit this from the
proof and this is really what's
behind the next statement i'm about to
make
then
for all natural numbers n
there exists
an x of n and
s such that
x sub n minus c is less than one over n
and
f of x sub n
minus f of c
is bigger than or equal to epsilon zero
okay
now let's take a look at this sequence
all right we're trying to break
something
and we'll end up breaking the assumption
the star assumption right so now we have
this sequence x of n's of s which are
getting closer and closer to c
so we have 0 is bigger than or equal to
x sub n minus c is bigger less than one
over n so this converges to zero this
converges to zero
so by the squeeze theorem the absolute
value of x sub n minus c converges to
zero
and therefore x sub n converges to c
by squeeze theorem
we get that
x n converges to c
now since we're assuming star holds
that's the
right side of
three of the if and only if
it must be the case that f of x n
converges to f c
[Applause]
right that's what star tells me that if
i take a sequence converging to c f of x
n converges to f of c
but
each one of these remember is bigger
than or equal to epsilon zero
which is a contradiction epsilon zero is
a positive number
okay
and uh that concludes
the proof of
this theorem
that gives us an equivalent way of
stating continuity in terms of sequences
and you know just like
for limits
this will allow us to use what we know
about sequences
to
conclude analogous facts for continuous
functions
[Applause]
all right so
let's look at a non-trivial example of a
continuous function
and also put this theorem to use this
previous theorem
functions
f of x equals sine x
and
g of x equals
cosine x these are continuous functions
so
meaning
their domain is a set of real numbers
so they're continuous at every real
number okay they're continuous at c for
every c a real number
okay
so
we're going to use this
well we're not going to use this theorem
just yet on this part we're actually
going to prove sine is continuous
directly from
the epsilon delta definition
which is always good so so first we
claim
sine x
so before i state what we're going to do
let me just give you a quick refresher
on what you can prove just from the
definition of sine and cosine remember
you know i'm not
i would usually put this to the class
and see
uh who remembers and who doesn't but so
this is also supposed to be a unit
circle although it doesn't quite look
like that
remember that sine and cosine are
defined as
you travel along
signed distance x along the circle
and you arrive at a point
um
on the unit circle which you
uh
so it's an ordered pair the first
element you call cosine x the second
element you call sine x okay so that's
how sine of x is defined so
now simply i'm not going to do these
because this is trig
not analysis but
from
the definition of
sine and cosine from
the unit circle
we have that
of course
all x and r
sine x plus cosine
squared x is equal to one
and therefore
each of these individual things has to
be less than or equal to one which upon
taking square roots means
that
so you have these
now
you can also make a better estimate for
sine x when x is close to zero
which is only useful for x close to 0
but which is the following that for all
x
sine x
is less than or equal to the absolute
value of x
just obtained by
you know
comparing the the length of one side of
a triangle
from this picture with the length of the
arc
so you have this and then you also have
the
angle sum
formula
which says that sine
of a plus b
equals sine a cosine b
plus
cosine a
sine b
and
you also have the
i can't remember the name of the exact
exact formula i think it's
difference to product or something of
that nature but which says
sine of a
minus sine of b
you can write so this is using the
previous formula
twice
sine of a minus b over 2
cosine of a
plus b over 2.
okay
so using these elementary
properties of sine and cosine will now
show that f is or that sine of x is
continuous
okay so
first thing we want to show
is that sine x is
a continuous function
so let's see in r we're going to show
sine is continuous at c
let epsilon
be positive and now we have to say how
to choose delta depending on this
epsilon
choose delta to be epsilon
all right now we'll use these elementary
properties to show that this delta works
then
if
x minus c is less than delta
we now want to show that f of x minus f
of c sine of x sine x minus sine c is
less than epsilon
so sine x minus sine c this is equal to
by
this last formula we have on the board
over here
this is equal to
twice
sine
x minus c over 2
cosine x plus c over 2.
and now this is the product of 2 times
absolute value of sine times absolute
value of cosine by this second property
over here cosine is always bounded by 1.
so this is less than or equal to 2 times
the absolute value of sine
x minus
c over 2.
and now we use this third property here
that sine x is less than or equal to
the absolute value of that thing you're
sticking in so this is less than or
equal to
2 times x minus c
over 2 which equals x minus c
so now we're in business we've connected
f of x to x minus c so this is less than
or equal to so this is less than delta
which equals epsilon by our choice of
delta
okay and therefore sine x minus sine c
is less than epsilon
i e sine x minus sine c
is less than epsilon so
thus
function sine x
is continuous at c
now
we'll use this and
the theorem we showed a minute ago
have i erased it yes i have now
officially erased it anyways we use the
previous theorem that we proved for
the equivalence of continuity and
convergence of sequences
to show that cosine is continuous
so
let's see be
an element of r
let x n be a sequence
converging to c
and we now want to show
that
cosine of x sub n converges to
cosine of c
okay once we've done that then by the
theorem we proved
previously
we can conclude that cosine is
continuous at c
okay
now here's the thing
for all
x and r
we have
cosine of x is equal to
sine of x plus
pi over 2 right we can deduce that
simply from this angle sum formula
yeah
take a equals x b equals pi over 2.
all right and using that cosine of pi
over 2 is 0.
all right and this is what we'll use
and the fact that we know sine is
continuous
since the sequence xn converges to c
this implies
the sequence x sub n plus pi over 2
converges to c plus pi over 2.
now
this sequence converges this sequence x
sub n plus pi over 2 converges to this
number and since sine is continuous
we have by the previous theorem
that
sine of this converges to this and
therefore
cosine of
cosine of x sub n
which is equal to sine of
x sub n plus pi over 2
converges to
sine of c plus pi over 2
which equals
cosine of c
i e
cosine of x sub n converges to cosine of
c and therefore
we've now shown that cosine is also
continuous
[Applause]
all right so let's answer this question
real quick so i'm gonna so the answer is
no
um
you can find a function which is
discontinuous
at every point every real number
so maybe this is an example rather than
a theorem but i'll state it as a theorem
let f of x be the function which takes
the value one
if x is a rational zero
if x is
um
not a rational
then
f is
not continuous
at every
cnr
okay
so first off don't try to
don't try to plot this using like matlab
or mathematica or anything because first
off computers
can't deal with irrational numbers
so
you will just get one no matter what you
stick into f
um
uh
but okay so you have this function which
is 1 if x is a rational 0 if x is not a
rational number if it's irrational
let's show it's discontinuous at every c
a different way if you like
to state
the theorem which i've already erased so
but let me just state it slightly
differently
f is not
continuous at c
so remember the
two statements are equivalent if and
only if their negations are equivalent
so f is not continuous at c
if and only if there exists
a sequence
x sub n
such that x ends converge to c
and
f of x n
the sequence f of x n does not
converge to
f c so maybe it just doesn't converge at
all or maybe it converges to something
other than f c okay
so this is just a restatement of the
theorem we've already proven but
now using negations of the statements
that appeared on the if and only if
all right
so there's two cases so
to consider for this uh so now we're
going so this is a
statement of the theorem
that we're u a restatement of the
theorem we're using and now we're going
to prove the theorem that i've stated
here
so let
c be an element of r we're going to show
that this function is discontinuous at c
there are two cases to consider
c is a rational number or c is an
irrational number
so
case one
c is a rational number
let's show f is not continuous at c
um
so
now we know that
for every natural number in
there exists
an element
x of n
in
a complement of q so an irrational
number
such that c is less than x of n is less
than c plus one over n
right so we proved this in an assignment
yeah between any two real numbers i can
find a rational number an irrational
number in between them
yeah so that's what this statement says
is for each
n
i can find an irrational number between
the number c and the number c plus one
over n
okay
now by the squeeze theorem
this is just a constant sequence if you
like converging to c
this converges to c and as n goes to
infinity this converges to c so i get
that the sequence x sub n
converges to c
okay
this will be my bad sequence
to satisfy this
conclusion because
so xn converges to c
but
if i look at
f of x in
if i take the limit as n goes to
infinity of f of x n
since all the x ends are not rational
they're irrational numbers
and i stick them into f i get 0
equals 0
and this does not equal 1 which equals f
of c because we're in the case that c is
a rational number
okay
so here we use the density of the
irrationals to show that this function
is not continuous at a rational number
and we'll do the same thing for the case
that
c is
an irrational number
okay
i mean it's the same proof except now we
essentially take compliments
we proved this theorem right after the
archimedean property of r that for any
two real numbers i can find a rational
number in between them so for every
n
there exists a rational number
such that
c
is less than x of n is less than c plus
one over n
okay
and again by the squeeze theorem
it follows that x n converges to c
and
if we look at the limit as n goes to
infinity of f of x
sub n
this is equal to all of these is
all of these values are 1
which does not equal 0 which equals f of
c since c is assumed to be an irrational
number
so this function is
not continuous at every real number
so
just terminology here if you hear me say
this when i say something is not
continuous i'll often say
discontinuous
okay we're going to use this theorem
now
i keep saying this theorem although i
already erased it but the theorem that
equates
continuity at a point in the fact that
every sequence converges
every sequence converging to c implies f
of x n converges to f c we're going to
use that theorem
to get
kind of corresponding
theorems about continuity that that look
kind of analogous to statements we made
about sequences
and then we'll consider a case which is
not covered
um
which has no analog
for sequences
so let me state the following theorem so
suppose
s is a subset of r c is an element of s
and i have two functions
from s to r
then
if f
and g
are continuous at c
then the conclusion is
f plus g
the function f plus g is
continuous at c
f times g
is continuous at c
and
if
g of x does not equal 0
for all x and s so i can divide by it
then
f over g
is continuous at
c
okay
and
so for example i'll prove the first
statement the other two you can prove
for yourself
and again this just follows from this
characterization we have of a function
being continuous at a point in terms of
limits of sequences and limits of
sequences we we know well we've proven
all these properties about them
if you like that's where we did all the
hard work
and now
getting some payoff in that we get
interesting
statements without a whole lot of work
so
we're assuming f and g are continuous at
c so so let's
prove f g is continuous said c via this
sequential characterization
suppose xn is a sequence converging to c
then
since f
and g
are continuous at c this implies that
the sequence is
f of x sub n converges to f of c
and g of x sub n
converges to g of c
and therefore by the theorem we proved
um several lectures ago that the sum of
two convergent sequences converges to
the sum of the limits
you get that f
plus g of
x sub n which is
f of x of n plus g of x of n
converges to
f of c
plus g of c
or
function f plus g evaluated at c
and
that's it right we've now shown that
every sequence converging to c f plus g
of x sub n converges to f plus g of c
okay and similarly for the others
although there's maybe a little bit of
a small hiccup here and that you want to
well no i mean
um
right so this follows uh i was thinking
of something else don't worry about that
um
but they two and three also follow
similarly using the sequential
um
the analogous sequential
theorems
[Applause]
however
we do have
so these are kind of three natural
operations we can do with two functions
we can add them we can multiply them we
can divide them just like what we had
for sequences there is one operation we
can do with functions that you don't do
with sequences or can't do with
sequences and that's compose them right
so the natural question is
is the composition of two continuous
functions continuous
and the answer to that is yes
we have to state this carefully
so
[Music]
a and b are a subset of r
and c is an element of a
so
let's write this
a little bit differently
a and b be a subset of r c is an element
of a
and
f will be a function from
let me get this right
f will be a function from a to r
and g is a function from a set
b to a and okay so i'm getting this
backwards
okay
so when i compose these two when i take
f of g
f of g will be a function now from b to
r okay
so if
g is
continuous
at c
and f
is continuous at the point
g of c which is remember an element of a
then the
composition f of g
is
continuous
at c
okay
so we'll use again this characterization
in terms of sequences okay
um
you know we don't necessarily have to we
could have done it uh
strictly speaking from
the definition but
this is a nice short way of
proving this statement so
let x in
be a sequence
in b
so of elements of b such that x sub n
converges to c
and what we want to show is that f of g
limit as n goes to infinity of f of g
of x sub n
equals
f of g
of c
okay
let's put this
off to the side
okay so since
x n converges c
and g is continuous at c
this implies that the sequence g of x in
converges to
g of c
okay now g of x sub n
this is a sequence now in a
converging to an element of a
yeah
so
since this sequence g of x of n
converges to g of c
and g
now f
is
continuous at
g of c
this implies
that
f of g of x of n
converges to
f of g of c
i e
this is by definition the same as saying
f of g
of x of n
equals
f of g
of c
okay
so we have a new we have an operation
that we can't do with sequences but this
operation still preserves continuity so
um
you know taking sums of continuous
functions
maintains a continu
stays in the class of continuous
functions product of two continuous
functions is continuous quotient is
continuous
and
now also the composition of two
continuous functions um is continuous
now so you know as a consequence of this
um
you know we can use this to prove some
some
you know give more examples of functions
which are continuous so for example
we're all in natural number
f of x equals x to the n
is
continuous as a function of for x and r
okay
so what's the proof
we can do this by induction okay so for
n equals 1
f of x equals x
we've already done
okay
right that was one of the first examples
of continuous functions we did was ax
plus b
so a equals 1 b equals 0 gives me this
case
now
so this is the base case let's now do
the
inductive step
suppose that the function
x to the m
is continuous and now we want to show x
to the m plus one is continuous
then
x to the n plus 1 this is equal to
x times x to the m
and since x to the m is continuous
and the function x f of x equals x is
continuous the product of two continuous
functions is continuous
it's the product of two continuous
functions
which by
the theorem we proved
uh implies that uh x to the n plus one
is
continuous
okay
so i keep saying continuous but you know
for all what i'm saying is for all c and
r
x to the m is continuous at c
okay
so maybe i should have written that down
but i think that meaning should be clear
enough
okay and by the same you know
um
inductive reasoning you could also prove
that
uh
we're all in a natural number
polynomials are continuous f of x e
for all in a natural number a
[Applause]
a and r
the function
given by a polynomial a a sub n
x to the n plus a sub n minus 1
x to the minus 1 plus
a sub 0
is continuous
okay
um
so rather than write down the actual
proof by induction let's talk our way
through it
so again for n equals 1 this is just
going to be some number times x which
we've already dealt with in a previous
example so we know that's continuous so
that settles the base case
now
let's assume that we've proved this for
n equals m or let's assume this for n
equals m and look at a function with n
equals n plus one
that's going to be
a to the a sub n plus one times x to the
n plus one plus a lower order polynomial
which we already know is continuous
and a sub m
plus 1 times x to the n plus 1 that's
continuous
because it's the product of a constant
and a continuous function by the
previous example
so that would be continuous plus the
lower order polynomial which is
continuous by assumption
that will be continuous by the theorem
that we proved
okay
but you know you don't have to just look
at polynomials
for example
so for example
the function f of x equals
1 over
3 plus
sine x to the fourth this is also
continuous
is a
continuous function why because for all
x first off three plus sine x to the
four this is never zero okay so this
function makes perfectly good sense
so the bottom is always non-zero
sine x is continuous so sine x to the 4
is continuous
3 is a continuous function it's just a
constant so
the bottom as a function on its own is
continuous
okay
and 1 over that function is continuous
as long as the bottom is never zero
which it it's never zero uh so again by
this uh theorem here
um
so we used the composition one to say
that sine x to the four is continuous
and we use that one the pre theorem
before that to show that 1 over 3 plus
sine x 4 is continuous okay so just let
me write this out real quick
i will say by composition theorem
the function
sine x
before is
continuous which implies by i'll say
algebraic theorem
meaning the theorem that involves
algebraic operations
3 plus
sine x sub 4
is
continuous
and by the algebraic theorem again
since 3 plus sine x to the 4 is never 0
for all x and r
discontinuous
okay
all right
so next time we'll look at some
properties of continuous functions
namely
namely uh we're called the min and max
theorems for continuous functions so the
great thing about continuous functions
is if you look at them on closed and
bounded intervals they always attain a
maximum minimum
at some point okay not just
uh
you know not just that the
graph is bounded above or below but
there's actual point that where f
reaches that min and reaches that max
and then we'll also use
also prove the intermediate value
theorem which says between any two
if i look if i have a continuous
function on an interval a b
and i look at f of a and f of b and i
take a number in between those two
values f of a and f of b there exists a
point in between them so that
f
attains that value
and this is
extremely important
and
we'll definitely see why later once we
get to
differentiability and continuity